# collections

COP-DEM: The Copernicus DEM is a Digital Surface Model (DSM) that represents the surface of the Earth including buildings, infrastructure and vegetation. Data were acquired through the TanDEM-X mission between 2011 and 2015 [https://spacedata.copernicus.eu/collections/copernicus-digital-elevation-model].

S2GLC: The S2GLC 2017 product represents land cover classification of a major portion of the European continent. The classification has been performed using multi-temporal Sentinel-2 data collected during the year 2017 with the methodology developed in the frame of the Sentinel-2 Global Land Cover (S2GLC) project. The Sentinel-2 Global Land Cover (S2GLC) project was founded by the European Space Agency (ESA) through its Scientific Exploitation of Operational Missions (SEOM) element [https://s2glc.cbk.waw.pl/].

TERRAAQUA: Terra MODIS and Aqua MODIS are viewing the entire Earth's surface every 1 to 2 days, acquiring data in 36 spectral bands. MODIS (or Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) is a key instrument aboard the Terra and Aqua satellites. Terra's orbit around the Earth is timed so that it passes from north to south across the equator in the morning, while Aqua passes south to north over the equator in the afternoon [https://modis.gsfc.nasa.gov/about/].

SENTINEL-3: Sentinel-3 is a constellation of two radar imaging satellites developed to support Copernicus ocean, land, atmospheric, emergency, security and cryospheric applications. Both S3A, launched in February 2016, and S3B, launched in April 2018, are part of the Copernicus Programme- the European Union’s Earth observation program, managed by the European Commission (COM) [https://www.eoportal.org/satellite-missions/copernicus-sentinel-3]. The spacecraft carries four main instruments: OLCI (Ocean and Land Colour Instrument), SLSTR (Sea and Land Surface Temperature Instrument), SRAL (SAR Radar Altimeter) and MWR (Microwave Radiometer). The SENTINEL-3 mission is jointly operated by the European Space Agency (ESA) and supported by EUMETSAT (European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites) [https://sentinels.copernicus.eu/web/sentinel/missions/sentinel-3].

SENTINEL-5P: The Copernicus Sentinel-5 Precursor mission dedicated to monitoring our atmosphere, consists of one satellite carrying the TROPOspheric Monitoring Instrument (TROPOMI) instrument. It aims to fill in global atmospheric data gap between the retired ENVISAT and AURA missions and the upcoming Sentinel-5 mission. The primary goal of TROPOMI is to provide daily global observations of key atmospheric constituents related to monitoring and forecasting air quality, the ozone layer, and climate change [https://dataspace.copernicus.eu/explore-data/data-collections/sentinel-data/sentinel-5p].

SENTINEL-1-RTC: Sentinel-1 Radiometric Terrain Corrected (RTC) SAR Backscatter is a product processed from Sentinel-1 ground range detected (GRD) and is compliant with CEOS Analysis Ready Data for Land (CARD4L) specifications for Normalised Radar Backscatter (NRB) products [https://collections.eurodatacube.com/card4l/].

SENTINEL-1: The Sentinel-1 mission is the European Radar Observatory for the Copernicus joint initiative of the European Commission (EC) and the European Space Agency (ESA). The Sentinel-1 mission includes C-band imaging operating in four exclusive imaging modes with different resolution (down to 5 m) and coverage (up to 400 km). It provides dual polarization capability, short revisit times and rapid product delivery. Additionally, precise measurements of spacecraft position and attitude are available for every observation [https://dataspace.copernicus.eu/explore-data/data-collections/sentinel-data/sentinel-1].

SMOS: The Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission was launched on 2 November 2009. It is one of the European Space Agency's Earth Explorer missions, which form the science and research element of the Living Planet Programme. The payload of SMOS consists of the Microwave Imaging Radiometer using Aperture Synthesis (MIRAS) instrument, a passive microwave 2-D interferometric radiometer, operating in L-band (1.413 GHz, 21 cm) within a protected wavelength/frequency band [https://creodias.eu/eodata/smos/].

LANDSAT-7: Landsat-7 continues the goal of the Landsat programme to image repetitively Earth's land and coastal areas with the aim of monitoring changes to those areas over time. The satellite continues to provide data continuity for the Thematic Mapper aboard Landsat-4 and 5, utilising an enhanced version of the instrument. The Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+) is the main instrument on board Landsat-7 and has been operational since 1999. It provides 30 m resolution for visible (VIS), near infrared (NIR) and shortwave infrared (SWIR) as well as 60 m resolution for thermal infrared. Moreover, it adds 15 m resolution panchromatic band (PAN) [https://creodias.eu/eodata/landsat-7/].

CCM: Copernicus Complementary Missions Datasets CCM Core datasets. More information can be found via https://dataspace.copernicus.eu/explore-data/data-collections/copernicus-contributing-missions/ccm-collections-description.
 
LANDSAT-5: Landsat-5 was launched on 1 March 1984 and the mission ended on 5 June 2013. It launched the Thematic Mapper (TM) which was a multispectral scanning radiometer operating in the visible and Infra-Red regions of the Electromagnetic Spectrum. It was characterized by 185 km swath width and 30 m resolution for visible (VIS), near infrared (NIR) and shortwave infrared (SWIR) while 120 m resolution for thermal infrared. The acquired Landsat TM scene covers approximately 183 x 172.8 km. The objective of Landsat-5 and any other Landsat mission was to image repetitively Earth's land and coastal areas with the aim of monitoring changes to those areas over time [https://creodias.eu/eodata/landsat-5/].

ENVISAT: Envisat was ESA's successor to ERS. Launched on 1 March 2002 on an Ariane-5 rocket from Europe's spaceport in French Guiana, Envisat was the largest Earth observation spacecraft ever built with 10 instruments aboard and at eight tonnes was the largest civilian Earth observation mission ever launched. More advanced imaging radar, radar altimeter and temperature-measuring radiometer instruments extended ERS data sets. This was supplemented by new instruments including a medium-resolution spectrometer sensitive to both land features and ocean colour. Envisat also carried two atmospheric sensors monitoring trace gases. The Envisat mission ended on 8 April 2012, following the unexpected loss of contact with the satellite [https://earth.esa.int/eogateway/missions/Envisat].

LANDSAT-8-ESA: Landsat-8 was launched on 11 February 2013. The satellite is part of the long-running Landsat programme led by USGS and NASA and carries the Operational Land Imager (OLI) and the Thermal Infrared Sensor (TIRS). The Operational Land Imager (OLI), on board Landsat-8 measures in the VIS, NIR and SWIR portions of the spectrum. Its images have 15 m panchromatic and 30 m multi-spectral spatial resolutions along a 185 km wide swath, covering wide areas of the Earth’s landscape while providing sufficient resolution to distinguish features like urban centres, farms, forests and other land uses. The entire Earth falls within view once every 16 days due to Landsat-8’s near-polar orbit. The Thermal Infra-Red Sensor instrument, on board Landsat-8, is a thermal imager operating in pushbroom mode with two Infra-Red channels: 10.8 µm and 12 µm with 100 m spatial resolution [https://creodias.eu/eodata/landsat-8/].

SENTINEL-6: The Sentinel-6 mission represents a groundbreaking advancement in Earth observation, providing invaluable insights for scientists, environmentalists, and stakeholders worldwide. At the heart of this mission is the cutting-edge radar altimeter instrument, designed to measure sea surface height and monitor key oceanographic parameters with unparalleled accuracy. The Sentinel-6 satellite collects precise data by employing advanced radar technology, allowing for a comprehensive understanding of sea level variations, ocean currents, and climate patterns [https://creodias.eu/eodata/sentinel-6/].

GLOBAL-MOSAICS: null

SENTINEL-2: "The Copernicus Sentinel-2 mission consists of two polar-orbiting satellites that are positioned in the same sun-synchronous orbit, with a phase difference of 180°. It aims to monitor changes in land surface conditions. The satellites have a wide swath width (290 km) and a high revisit time. Sentinel-2 is equipped with an optical instrument payload that samples 13 spectral bands: four bands at 10 m, six bands at 20 m and three bands at 60 m spatial resolution [https://dataspace.copernicus.eu/explore-data/data-collections/sentinel-data/sentinel-2].
